Empathy is often seen as a key part of emotional intelligence
—but what if it doesn’t come easily to you?
Some people find empathy overwhelming.
Others may struggle with it entirely, especially
those who are neurodivergent.
And that’s okay.
Instead of focusing only on empathy, try shifting your focus to
understanding perspectives.
There’s a subtle but powerful difference.
Understanding perspective means you respect and consider someone
else’s viewpoint—without having to feel what they feel.
This might look like reflecting on what you already know about
someone before a meeting, or imagining how they might experience a
shared situation.
You're not trying to guess their exact feelings—you're simply opening
up to the possibility of what they might be thinking or feeling.
Here are a couple of tips:
- Before a conversation, set an intention: “I want
to understand their point of view.”
- During the conversation, ask thoughtful questions like:
- “Tell me more about where you’re coming from.”
- Or “What am I missing here?”
This approach has two major benefits:
First, it helps you understand the other person’s goals and
values—which makes finding solutions easier.
Second, it helps build trust.
People appreciate feeling heard, even if you don’t
fully agree with them.
So here’s your challenge:
In the coming weeks, make an effort to see things
from others’ perspectives.
You may be surprised at the outcome.